I found the process of creating both the first and second versions of my prototype to be a valuable learning experience. The last time we met in class, I had a methodology that I knew I wanted to pursue, but I was still trying to decide on the topic or the person/author I wanted to focus on. Before creating my first prototype, I visited the archives at the University and looked through the boxes of a Canadian playwright named Elda Magill Cadogan, who I was thinking of choosing as the focus of my assignment. Although I found her work fascinating, most of it was published after 1950, meaning it would be in copyright, which placed more restraints on what I could do with it digitally. Having not yet settled on an author before creating prototype v.1, I decided to apply TEI/XML encoding to a short poem by Alice Duer Miller called "Did You Know," with the idea that it would act as a placeholder allowing me to test out my proposed methodology and then consult further with the University of Guelph archives. After consulting with the archives, I decided to simply move forward with Miller as the writer whose work I will study for my capstone. For prototype v.2, I chose to tag two more of Alice Duer Miller’s poems in XML using LEAF writer.
Both versions of my prototype allowed me to test out various platforms I was considering using to tag poems in TEI and various systems that I could use to save and store my work. For instance, my prototype v.1 experimented with tagging one of ADM’s poems in TEI using CWRC writer (web-based and saved on Github) versus Oxygen (tagged locally on my computer and then uploaded to Github). (See screenshot with white background.) Although Oxygen was the easier platform to use, it was slightly less convenient when it came to saving, storing, and organizing files that I was working on. Based on the feedback I received from Susan on prototype v.1, I decided to try tagging in LEAF writer (a newer version of CWRC writer) for prototype v.2. (See screenshot with dark background.) I found that I absolutely preferred LEAF writer to both Oxygen and CWRC for tagging my prototype in TEI/XML. I will also be using Github to store and share my work.
Now that I’ve iterated a few times, I definitely have a better idea of what direction I want my project to take. Moving forward, I will be looking at refining my tagging from general document structure (e.g. lines and line groups in a poem) to focus on adding more specific tags that might help answer research questions about Miller's work. (For example, her poetry often parodies anti-suffrage speeches, which makes her use of quotations quite interesting.) I will also be looking at how to prototype document structure (e.g. I currently have three poems tagged as three separate files. All three poems were published in the collection Are Women People, so it might be more effective to tag poems in a single file.) I will also look into what platforms I can use to publish or display this work.
